# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

#### Public Classes

* [`nrpe`](#nrpe): Installs and configures NRPE

#### Private Classes

* `nrpe::config`: Configures NRPE
* `nrpe::config::ssl`: Configures SSL for NRPE
* `nrpe::install`: Installs required NRPE packages
* `nrpe::params`: Sets defaults based on OS
* `nrpe::service`: Manages the NRPE service

### Defined types

* [`nrpe::command`](#nrpecommand): Installs NRPE commands
* [`nrpe::plugin`](#nrpeplugin): Installs additional plugins for NRPE

### Functions

#### Public Functions


#### Private Functions

* `nrpe::ssl_logging`: A function that outputs a string suitable for the nrpe.conf `ssl_logging` parameter.  The nrpe.conf documentation has the following to say...

### Data types

* [`Nrpe::Sslversion`](#nrpesslversion)
* [`Nrpe::Syslogfacility`](#nrpesyslogfacility)

## Classes

### <a name="nrpe"></a>`nrpe`

Installs and configures NRPE

* **See also**
  * https://github.com/NagiosEnterprises/nrpe
  * https://github.com/NagiosEnterprises/nrpe/blob/master/README.SSL.md

#### Examples

##### Basic usage

```puppet
class { 'nrpe':
  allowed_hosts => [
    '127.0.0.1',
    'nagios.example.org',
  ],
}
```

##### With SSL

```puppet
class { 'nrpe':
  allowed_hosts               => 'nagios.example.org',
  ssl_cert_file_content       => file('profile/ssl/nagios.example.org.crt'),
  ssl_privatekey_file_content => file('profile/ssl/nagios.example.org.key'),
  ssl_cacert_file_content     => file('profile/ssl/GeoTrust_RSA_CA_2018.crt'),
  ssl_client_certs            => 'require',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `nrpe` class:

* [`allowed_hosts`](#allowed_hosts)
* [`server_address`](#server_address)
* [`commands`](#commands)
* [`plugins`](#plugins)
* [`command_timeout`](#command_timeout)
* [`package_name`](#package_name)
* [`manage_package`](#manage_package)
* [`purge`](#purge)
* [`dont_blame_nrpe`](#dont_blame_nrpe)
* [`log_facility`](#log_facility)
* [`server_port`](#server_port)
* [`command_prefix`](#command_prefix)
* [`debug`](#debug)
* [`connection_timeout`](#connection_timeout)
* [`allow_weak_random_seed`](#allow_weak_random_seed)
* [`allow_bash_command_substitution`](#allow_bash_command_substitution)
* [`nrpe_user`](#nrpe_user)
* [`nrpe_group`](#nrpe_group)
* [`nrpe_pid_file`](#nrpe_pid_file)
* [`command_file_default_mode`](#command_file_default_mode)
* [`supplementary_groups`](#supplementary_groups)
* [`nrpe_ssl_dir`](#nrpe_ssl_dir)
* [`ssl_cert_file_content`](#ssl_cert_file_content)
* [`ssl_privatekey_file_content`](#ssl_privatekey_file_content)
* [`ssl_cacert_file_content`](#ssl_cacert_file_content)
* [`ssl_version`](#ssl_version)
* [`ssl_ciphers`](#ssl_ciphers)
* [`ssl_client_certs`](#ssl_client_certs)
* [`ssl_log_startup_params`](#ssl_log_startup_params)
* [`ssl_log_remote_ip`](#ssl_log_remote_ip)
* [`ssl_log_protocol_version`](#ssl_log_protocol_version)
* [`ssl_log_cipher`](#ssl_log_cipher)
* [`ssl_log_client_cert`](#ssl_log_client_cert)
* [`ssl_log_client_cert_details`](#ssl_log_client_cert_details)
* [`manage_pid_dir`](#manage_pid_dir)
* [`config`](#config)
* [`include_dir`](#include_dir)
* [`provider`](#provider)
* [`service_name`](#service_name)

##### <a name="allowed_hosts"></a>`allowed_hosts`

Data type: `Array[Variant[Stdlib::Fqdn,Stdlib::IP::Address]]`

Specifies the hosts that NRPE will accept connections from.

Default value: `['127.0.0.1']`

##### <a name="server_address"></a>`server_address`

Data type: `Stdlib::IP::Address`

Specifies the IP address of the inteface that NRPE should bind to. Useful when the system has more than one interface.

Default value: `'0.0.0.0'`

##### <a name="commands"></a>`commands`

Data type: `Hash`

A Hash of `nrpe::command` resources you want to create.  Recommended when you want to define `nrpe::command`s in hiera data.

Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="plugins"></a>`plugins`

Data type: `Hash`

A Hash of `nrpe::plugin` resources you want to create.  Recommended when you want to define `nrpe::plugin`s in hiera data.

Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="command_timeout"></a>`command_timeout`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Specifies the maximum number of seconds that the NRPE daemon will allow plugins to finish executing before killing them off.

Default value: `60`

##### <a name="package_name"></a>`package_name`

Data type: `Variant[String[1], Array[String[1]]]`

The package name or array of package names that will be installed. The default is often fine, but you may wish to set this to install extra packages like `nrpe-selinux`.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_packages`

##### <a name="manage_package"></a>`manage_package`

Data type: `Boolean`

By default, set to `true` and the `nrpe` class will manage the OS package(s).

Default value: ``true``

##### <a name="purge"></a>`purge`

Data type: `Boolean`

When set to true, the module will purge any unmanaged commands from the NRPE includedir.

Default value: ``false``

##### <a name="dont_blame_nrpe"></a>`dont_blame_nrpe`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether or not the NRPE daemon will allow clients to specify arguments to commands that are executed. ENABLING THIS OPTION IS A SECURITY RISK!

Default value: `$nrpe::params::dont_blame_nrpe`

##### <a name="log_facility"></a>`log_facility`

Data type: `Nrpe::Syslogfacility`

The syslog facility that should be used for logging purposes.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::log_facility`

##### <a name="server_port"></a>`server_port`

Data type: `Stdlib::Port::Unprivileged`

The port that NRPE should listen for connections on.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::server_port`

##### <a name="command_prefix"></a>`command_prefix`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

This option allows you to prefix all commands with a user-defined string.  Although often used to run all commands with sudo, `nrpe::command` has dedicated `sudo` parameters for this.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::command_prefix`

##### <a name="debug"></a>`debug`

Data type: `Boolean`

This option determines whether or not debugging messages are logged to the syslog facility.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::debug`

##### <a name="connection_timeout"></a>`connection_timeout`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Specifies the maximum number of seconds that the NRPE daemon will wait for a connection to be established before exiting.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::connection_timeout`

##### <a name="allow_weak_random_seed"></a>`allow_weak_random_seed`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether or not the NRPE daemon will use weak sources of randomness

Default value: `$nrpe::params::allow_weak_random_seed`

##### <a name="allow_bash_command_substitution"></a>`allow_bash_command_substitution`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Determines whether or not the NRPE daemon will allow clients to specify arguments that contain bash command substitutions of the form `$(...)`. ** ENABLING THIS OPTION IS A HIGH SECURITY RISK! **

Default value: `$nrpe::params::allow_bash_command_substitution`

##### <a name="nrpe_user"></a>`nrpe_user`

Data type: `String[1]`

Determines the effective user that the NRPE daemon should run as.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_user`

##### <a name="nrpe_group"></a>`nrpe_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

Determines the effective group that the NRPE daemon should run as.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_group`

##### <a name="nrpe_pid_file"></a>`nrpe_pid_file`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The name of the file in which the NRPE daemon should write it's process ID number.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_pid_file`

##### <a name="command_file_default_mode"></a>`command_file_default_mode`

Data type: `Stdlib::Filemode`

The default file mode to use when creating NRPE command files in the includedir.

Default value: `'0644'`

##### <a name="supplementary_groups"></a>`supplementary_groups`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

If set, the `nrpe_user` will be added to these supplementary groups.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="nrpe_ssl_dir"></a>`nrpe_ssl_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The directory that SSL certificates and keys will be created in.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_ssl_dir`

##### <a name="ssl_cert_file_content"></a>`ssl_cert_file_content`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

A string containing the SSL Certificate.

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="ssl_privatekey_file_content"></a>`ssl_privatekey_file_content`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

A string containing the SSL private **KEY**.  It is recommended to source this parameter from hiera and use EYAML or similar to encrypt the data.

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="ssl_cacert_file_content"></a>`ssl_cacert_file_content`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

A string containing the SSL CA Cert file contents.

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="ssl_version"></a>`ssl_version`

Data type: `Nrpe::Sslversion`

The SSL Version to use.  The default of `TLSv1.2+` is the most secure option available at time of writing.  Avoid having to set it to a lower value if possible.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::ssl_version`

##### <a name="ssl_ciphers"></a>`ssl_ciphers`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

An array of ciphers that should be allowed by NRPE.  The defaults are for RSA keys and were taken from https://github.com/ssllabs/research/wiki/SSL-and-TLS-Deployment-Best-Practices.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::ssl_ciphers`

##### <a name="ssl_client_certs"></a>`ssl_client_certs`

Data type: `Enum['no','ask','require']`

This options determines client certificate usage.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::ssl_client_certs`

##### <a name="ssl_log_startup_params"></a>`ssl_log_startup_params`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to log startup SSL/TLS parameters.

Default value: ``false``

##### <a name="ssl_log_remote_ip"></a>`ssl_log_remote_ip`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to log remote IP address of SSL client.

Default value: ``false``

##### <a name="ssl_log_protocol_version"></a>`ssl_log_protocol_version`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to log SSL/TLS version of connections.

Default value: ``false``

##### <a name="ssl_log_cipher"></a>`ssl_log_cipher`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to log which encryption cipher is being used for SSL connections.

Default value: ``false``

##### <a name="ssl_log_client_cert"></a>`ssl_log_client_cert`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to log if an SSL client has presented a certificate.

Default value: ``false``

##### <a name="ssl_log_client_cert_details"></a>`ssl_log_client_cert_details`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to log details of client SSL certificates.

Default value: ``false``

##### <a name="manage_pid_dir"></a>`manage_pid_dir`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to manage the directory where the PID file should exist.

Default value: ``false``

##### <a name="config"></a>`config`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

**Private** You should not need to override this parameter.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_config`

##### <a name="include_dir"></a>`include_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

**Private** You should not need to override this parameter.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_include_dir`

##### <a name="provider"></a>`provider`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

**Private** You should not need to override this parameter.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_provider`

##### <a name="service_name"></a>`service_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

**Private** You should not need to override this parameter.

Default value: `$nrpe::params::nrpe_service`

## Defined types

### <a name="nrpecommand"></a>`nrpe::command`

Installs NRPE commands

#### Examples

##### Install a command called `check_users`

```puppet
nrpe::command { 'check_users':
  ensure  => present,
  command => 'check_users -w 5 -c 10',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `nrpe::command` defined type:

* [`name`](#name)
* [`command`](#command)
* [`ensure`](#ensure)
* [`file_mode`](#file_mode)
* [`sudo`](#sudo)
* [`sudo_user`](#sudo_user)

##### <a name="name"></a>`name`

The name of the command.

##### <a name="command"></a>`command`

Data type: `String[1]`

The command plugin to run and its arguments.

##### <a name="ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present', 'absent']`

Whether to install or remove the command.

Default value: `present`

##### <a name="file_mode"></a>`file_mode`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Filemode]`

The mode to use for the command file.  By default, this parameter is `undef`, and the command file will use `$nrpe::command_file_default_mode`.

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="sudo"></a>`sudo`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether the command should use sudo.

Default value: ``false``

##### <a name="sudo_user"></a>`sudo_user`

Data type: `String[1]`

The user to run the command as when using sudo.

Default value: `'root'`

### <a name="nrpeplugin"></a>`nrpe::plugin`

Installs additional plugins for NRPE

#### Examples

##### Install a `check_mem` plugin from a file hosted in your `site` module

```puppet
nrpe::plugin { 'check_mem':
  ensure => present,
  source => 'puppet:///modules/site/nrpe/check_mem',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `nrpe::plugin` defined type:

* [`name`](#name)
* [`ensure`](#ensure)
* [`content`](#content)
* [`source`](#source)

##### <a name="name"></a>`name`

The name of the plugin.

##### <a name="ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present', 'absent']`

Whether to install or remove the plugin.

Default value: `present`

##### <a name="content"></a>`content`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Defines the actual content of the plugin file.  Should not be used in conjunction with `source`.

Default value: ``undef``

##### <a name="source"></a>`source`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Filesource]`

Defines the source of the plugin file. Should not be used in conjunction with `content`.

Default value: ``undef``

## Functions

## Data types

### <a name="nrpesslversion"></a>`Nrpe::Sslversion`

The Nrpe::Sslversion data type.

Alias of

```puppet
Enum['SSLv2', 'SSLv2+', 'SSLv3', 'SSLv3+', 'TLSv1', 'TLSv1+', 'TLSv1.1', 'TLSv1.1+', 'TLSv1.2', 'TLSv1.2+']
```

### <a name="nrpesyslogfacility"></a>`Nrpe::Syslogfacility`

The Nrpe::Syslogfacility data type.

Alias of

```puppet
Enum['user', 'mail', 'daemon', 'auth', 'syslog', 'lpr', 'news', 'uucp', 'cron', 'authpriv', 'ftp', 'ntp', 'security', 'console', 'solaris-cron', 'local0', 'local1', 'local2', 'local3', 'local4', 'local5', 'local6', 'local7']
```

